Snowflake Notes  :
=========================
When evaluating different solutions, potential buyers compare competencies in categories such as evaluation and contracting, integration and deployment, service and support, and specific product capabilities. 
The database accommodates unstructured data very well, which has allowed us to use Snowflake for our data lake. Snowpipe and the use of directory stages makes data ingestion extremely easy. 
We moved from a traditional self managed Hadoop platform to snowflake for all our data-warehousing needs. The results have been quite outstanding. 
Overall SQL/Batch-Job failure rate has gone down to less than 3%, earlier it used to be in double digits.
Also the amount of overhead and optimization work needed to run workloads has decreased. Data ingestion capabilities from various sources has increased."



What do you like most about the product or service?
The platform scales effortlessly and is very easy to tune with respect to capacity. The elastic nature of the cluster saves a ton of money as it grows and shrinks based on usage.




Please explain the business problems or needs that prompted the purchase of this product or service.
Our existing Redshift data warehouse was not scaling well and the cost trajectory was not satisfactory. 
In addition, our DBAs were spending quite a bit of time with data management tasks (vacuuming, repartitioning, etc.).
SqL based database engine required -supports and integrates with all major languages like spark, python or R -performs advance analytics and data science operations
**Reporting, analytics, data-warehousing & finance-audits used to run on top of a Hadoop cluster which was insufficient to handle all the workload, so moving to a completely managed cloud based solution made sense.



Limitattions :
Stored procedure support
Data in vendors cloud
The overall management (role hierarchy, grants etc.) from the UI is not very clean.
Need better integration with tools like Terraform so that infra management can be automated via code.



If you could start over, what would your organization do differently?
I might have been more formal in the selection process via an RFI. 
We certainly explored other options but an RFI would have declared to the vendor that they were definitely in competition with other vendors, which could have resulted in better pricing.

What one piece of advice would you give other prospective customers?
Do an RFI or RFP to get most favorable pricing. Also, make sure to try the platform before making a decision as the platform has some very unique features.
**Do not do user/role/warehouse/DB management from the UI, do them as code and from a version control system such as Git. So we can rollback to previous version incase of exigency.



It integrates with many data analytics tools and data science languages. it is easy to deploy as it doesn't not require any infrastructure setup.

Why did you purchase this product or service?
Drive innovation
Reduce time to market
Drive revenue growth
Improve business process outcomes
Cost management
Create internal/operational efficiencies
Improve business process agility
Enhance decision making




What were the key factors that drove your decision?
Product roadmap and future vision
Overall cost
Product functionality and performance
Strong customer focus

Which other vendors did you consider in your evaluation?
Oracle
Microsoft
Amazon Web Services (AWS)

How long did your deployment take?
0 - 3 months (<3)

What was your implementation strategy?
Worked with just the vendor

Product Capabilities
Ability to access multiple data sources
Administration and Management
Flexible scaleability
Variety of data types
Workload management
Traditional user support
Exploratory user support
Advanced Analytics
Data Ingest
Managing Large Volumes of Data
Optimized Performance (Exploratory)
Optimized Performance (Traditional)



Snowflake used SQL based database engine for storing and retrieving data from the cloud.It helps get a lot of insights from the data,perform query based operations and 
the level of automation and concurrency required to work on multiple segments at a time.It also provided features like per second pricing and flexibility to use big data platforms.
It has its own cloud platform which signifies that there is no infrastructure required for setup and provided elasticity to support a lot of users and their applications."


Use cases  :
----------------
We were not agile
Things are not scalable
Concurry use case 
Storage use case 

Snowflake  :
Decouple Compute and Storage layer :Cost friendly
Both the layers are independently scalable
In cloudera we had to both storage and Compute bundled . So unncessary CPu for extra Storage were incurred
Zero cpoy cloning
Sinlge place of truth
Simplicity  : Data At rest is encrypted
Snowflake take crae of Upgrades  : Every weekly
 So we built COE for Snowflake  : Governanace , rtraining, best practise